# Trend Sentiment Analysis
 While it is easy to send out surveys and expect the audience to give reviews of products/services or any trending topic, the chances of getting sufficient responses can be difficult. On the other hand, it is easy and convenient to post views on social media platforms i.e., Twitter, Reddit, etc. 

 Trend Sentiment Analysis is a powerful analytics tool with the potential to delivery summary of the trending topic with in-depth sentiment analysis performed on latest data gathered from a social media platform such as Twitter. A business could easily get insights on how well a product/service is being received on the consumer end with a report that can be easily modified to tailor for relevant use.

## Objectives:
1) To develop a dynamic software solution that is functional, intuitive and minimalistic in design. 
2) To collect recent activity based on the end user’s search query. 
3) To experiment with different Natural Language Processing (NLP) models to perform sentiment analysis and sarcasm detection.
4) To extensively test and evaluate the sentiment and sarcasm models, ensuring they are fit for purpose.
5) To develop a functionality allowing customisation of the reports generated by tsa’s web app. 
6) To futureproof the web app for deployment in the real world and provide more services. 

---

# [Prerequisites] Note to devs/mods/tutors/assessors:
## To test out app on your local machines you will have to do the following
## Requirements
The recommended Python version is 3.10 at system level (TensorFlow does not work with newer versions of Python).
This project also requires JavaScript and React. Please ensure these are installed and updated to the latest versions.
Also the latest version of 'npm' for front-end and 'pip' for the backend is essential. 

## Back-end
```
cd server
python3 -m venv /venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Front-end
```
cd tsa
npm install
```

---

# To launch tsa
After completing the prerequisites, the following steps must be followed in order:
```
cd server
source venv/bin/activate
python3 server_mongo.py
```
(open a new terminal in parent folder again)
```
cd tsa
npm start
```

>(IMP: its essential that you activate the virtual environment before launching the server.)

---

# To view and test jupyter notebooks/ipynb files
It is recommended to open the ipynb notebooks within [Google Colaboratory](https://colab.research.google.com/) </br>
The code within these files are already executed and the results are already displayed. However, if you wish to test it,
at the beginning of each file there are further instructions on how to run the file. 

## Datasets
Please click on [this link](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/19AwC_aP13RTJBK7Xx2J0-Q50W14Nmam8?usp=share_link) to view the datasets used/required to train/test the models. </br>
Citrations can be found within each ipynb file. 

# Future Plans:
 - Search filters to be able to fine-tune tweets gathered i.e based on location, etc.
 - Summary of what the searched trend is all about.
 - Sentiment Analysis of Tweets (i.e: latest 100 tweets)
    - how the audience feel about the topic i.e. what emotions are invoked 
    - how well the topic is doing i.e.,is it evoking positive/neutral/negative responses
 - Customisable graphs display valuable information
    - Categories of mood
    - Percentage of emotions being displayed
    - How well the trend is doing over time
    - Summary of most common criticising words
 - Exploring potential sub-categories of mood or overlapping moods i.e., anger &
 sadness
 - Potential to grow in the future: accessing other data sources over time, i.e., data
 from Reddit, Google Reviews, TrustPilot, etc.
 - Chatbot to attend customser services queries
 - Poetry generator (experimental)